The last time you were building out a
speech, did you take time to think, what
type of speech structure am I using?
Until a couple of years ago, I didn't
even realize there are different styles
of speech structures. But I've learned
since that there are, and there are ways
we can use strategic structures to
really allow our message to sink in
deeper. And on this video, I'm going to
share a few different speech structures
with you, hopefully to spark an idea of
how you can give a great speech and
structure it the right way. Most great
speeches have three specific elements.
First, they have an opening or an intro
that hooks the audience's attention.
Those are the best ways to start a
speech, and it's very important. Then,
you have the body of the speech. That's
the main part. That's where we see a few
different structures come into play. And
then there's a conclusion, something
that wraps everything up. And it's ideal
if it brings the speech full circle. The
first style of speech that you can
consider using is a chronological
speech. And this is one of the most
common types of speeches that we see and
it takes the audience on a timeline
journey. For example, if you were giving
a business speech and you wanted to
start out talking about how last year's
results were, that's the first part.
You're going back in time. And then you
can talk about current initiatives that
are happening now. And then perhaps you
wrap up your speech talking about future
projections, things you hope to
accomplish going forward. The same type
of thing can be used for a wedding
speech. Chronological works well for
this. Perhaps you're the best man or the
maid of honor and you want to start the
speech with a story talking about the
first time you met the bride or the
groom. Then you could bring the speech
into present day by talking about great
characteristics and personality traits
that they have. And then you could wrap
up your speech by talking about all of
the things you wish for them and their
partner going into the future. What's
also cool about these speeches is you
can take the audience on a visual
timeline. So pretend this is a stage. As
you're talking in the early parts of the
speech, you can be on this side and it's
the left side which indicates early on
the timeline. And then as you come into
present day, you can be in the middle.
And then as you talk about the future,
you can go this way. And as you
reference things throughout the speech,
you have the opportunity to b bounce
back and forth on this visual timeline.
Chronological speeches are very strong
for this reason. Have you ever felt like
a speech took you on a journey? This
might be a spatial speech. Spatial
speeches work really well, especially if
you're talking about a trip you went on
or different areas of the country you've
lived. And I want you to think about
this. maybe rather than having a
PowerPoint behind you as almost a map
and that you're flying from location to
location and you're taking the audience
with you. These speeches allow the
audience to immerse themselves in the
experience you've had in different
places. And what often works well for
spatial speeches is really good vocal
variety and body language, allowing the
audience to feel like they are there
with you. If you're talking about a busy
city where there's traffic everywhere
and you're trying to hail a cab and it's
rush hour and it's so busy and it's loud
and it's noisy, you can do impacts with
your voice to allow the audience to feel
like they are there. Or if you're in a
peaceful area and it's nice and quiet
and you want to look out and enjoy the
scenery,
you can match your voice and your pacing
to do this. These are spatial speeches
which take the audience to different
locations and that can be a really
effective way to tell certain styles of
speeches. Are you trying to get your
audience to take action? A persuasive
speech might be the best structure for
you. The idea here is that you start
with an introduction like every strong
speech structure has an intro to hook
the audience and then you give a few
compelling reasons why the audience
might want to take action and then you
end the speech by reinforcing your
point. For example, if I wanted to build
a persuasive speech about why you should
join Toast Masters, perhaps I would
start the speech by talking about a time
when I froze in front of an audience and
I forgot what I was going to say. And
then I could merge this into talking
about my discovery of Toast Masters and
how I joined because I wanted to reduce
my speaking anxiety. And it worked.
Within 3 months, I noticed that I was
far less nervous to give a speech. And
then I could talk about other benefits I
got like I improved my listening skills
by joining Toast Masters. Then the final
area, I could talk about the leadership
skills I gained as well. And then I
could bring it back full circle to that
original point of freezing in front of
the audience and finalizing that with
Toast Masters helped ensure that will
never happen again.
This is a persuasive speech and can be a
very strong structure to leverage.
Another style of speech structure is a
comparative speech. And this is when you
might want the audience to consider
different possible
platforms, outcomes, services, and come
to their own conclusion. For example, a
great way to use a comparative speech
would be to ask, "What is the best
social media platform?" So you could
give a case for Instagram and a case for
Facebook and a case for Tik Tok. So the
intro is the question, what is the best
social media network to be on? And then
each branch of your speech talks about
the different platforms. And then you
can conclude by either giving your
opinion or redirecting the audience to
give their thoughts based on what you've
just talked about. The final speech
style you may want to consider is
something called a problem solution
speech. So the idea here is that you
start off your speech with the question
or the problem. For example, how do we
increase fundraising for our charitable
cause next year and then you propose a
few different possible solutions? So
solution number one could be we run more
fundraisers.
Solution number two could be we actually
do less fundraisers, but we really put
effort into them and we choose the ones
that typically raise the most money and
then we go 100% on those.
Or solution number three is we do the
exact same number of fundraisers we've
done in the past, but we bring in more
volunteers and try to get word out with
better marketing efforts. There you go.
You've created a speech with three
possible solutions. And now the audience
can participate perhaps in the end of
what they think that the best solution
should be, but you've given them the
info that they need to do. So I hope
this video has been helpful in giving
you a few different speech structures
you can leverage. I think the place to
start is asking yourself why are you
giving the speech? What is the purpose?
What is the intended outcome? And then
from there, once you have that in mind,
you can pick the best format that
applies to your speech. Thanks for
checking out this video. There's another
video popping up where I talk about some
of the ways you can practice public
speaking and hopefully those resonate
with you. And if you haven't already
done so, please subscribe to my channel.
That is the best way to support what I
do. Thank you so much for watching this
video. Have a great day.